---
id: storage-collaboration
title: Storage and Collaboration
---
import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl'; // Add to the top of the file below the front matter.

The storage feature allows user to access, store, audit, collaborate,
synchronize, and run further analysis on the baseline, comparison, and
the simulated data series across the entire model scenarios. Users
require a dedicated ValQ workspace access authenticated by their Office
365 credentials.

After successful login, user can see additional options such as Sync,
Comments, and History Log

<img alt="" src={useBaseUrl('/doc-images//SC.1.png')} />

In the screenshot model, lets assume the user deletes a node 'Ryan
Smith'

<img alt="" src={useBaseUrl('/doc-images//SC.2.1.png')} />

Lets also assume the user simulates on another node 'Chris Morris'

<img alt="" src={useBaseUrl('/doc-images//SC.2.2.png')} />

User can comment on the changes made by clicking the 'Comments' icon on
top of the node. The comment along with the username and time log is
saved and displayed.

<img alt="" src={useBaseUrl('/doc-images//SC.3.png')} />

User can synchronize and store the changes to the workspace by clicking
the 'Sync' icon, naming the model, and clicking 'Upload'.

<img alt="" src={useBaseUrl('/doc-images//SC.4.png')} />

The 'History Log' has captured the model and scenario level changes made
by the user in a chronological order. This icon helps in auditing the
changes in the ValQ model.

<img alt="" src={useBaseUrl('/doc-images//SC.5.png')} />

The comments can also be tracked under the model level 'Comments' icon.
Comments window displays all user comments at Scenario-Node level.

<img alt="" src={useBaseUrl('/doc-images//SC.6.png')} />

ValQ has also been made collaborative - Users who are a part of the same
workspace can also collaborate on the same ValQ model. Assuming a second
user accessing the same model simulates on the existing scenario,
creates additional scenario, adds a new node, and comments on the
changes done. To store these changes, the user also synchronizes them to
the workapce.

Once the first user logs in, all the changes made by the second user are
synced up and displayed at the ValQ canvas.

<img alt="" src={useBaseUrl('/doc-images//SC.7.png')} />

The changes at a Model/Scenario level are captured at the History Log.
The comments in chronological order between users are displayed at a
Node-Scenario level

<img alt="" src={useBaseUrl('/doc-images//SC.8.png')} />

Lastly, users can also export their export all the data values fed and
generated from ValQ - namely, basline, comparison, and scenario data.
Under the 'Sync' window, users can export their ValQ data by clicking
'Export model as a web data source', making the data series and scenario
selection, and clicking 'Download CSV' (through Power BI Service) or
copy-pasting the URLs into Excel (through Power BI Desktop)

<img alt="" src={useBaseUrl('/doc-images//SC.9.1.png')} />

In Excel, the copied URLs are fed into the 'From Web' - 'Advanced'
window to generate the exported data.

<img alt="" src={useBaseUrl('/doc-images//SC.10.png')} />

Users can also run further simulations to their scenarios and instantly
synchronize the new data by refreshing the data query within 'Queries &
Connections' in Excel.

<img alt="" src={useBaseUrl('/doc-images//SC.11.png')} />
